#Codebook.md

##Introduction

This is the codebook corresponding to the final project in the course "Getting and Cleaning Data" (https://www.coursera.org/course/getdata).

Extracted from the project instructions:

> The purpose of this project is to demonstrate your ability to collect, work with, and clean a data set. The goal is to prepare tidy data that can be used for later analysis. You will be graded by your peers on a series of yes/no questions related to the project. You will be required to submit: 1) a tidy data set as described below, 2) a link to a Github repository with your script for performing the analysis, and 3) a code book that describes the variables, the data, and any transformations or work that you performed to clean up the data called `CodeBook.md`. You should also include a `README.md` in the repo with your scripts. This repo explains how all of the scripts work and how they are connected.

> One of the most exciting areas in all of data science right now is wearable computing - see for example this article . Companies like Fitbit, Nike, and Jawbone Up are racing to develop the most advanced algorithms to attract new users. The data linked to from the course website represent data collected from the accelerometers from the Samsung Galaxy S smartphone. A full description is available at the site where the data was obtained:

> http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones

> Here are the data for the project: 

> https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip 

> You should create one R script called `run_analysis.R` that does the following.

> 1. Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
> 2. Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.
> 3. Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set.
> 4. Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names.
> 5. From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.

##Data

###Full tidy data set

The full data set contains one row for each observation recorded throughout the experiment. Each observation regards to a subject and an activity label. The measurement of the remaining columns are related to mean and standard deviation of the following items:

* Accelerometer of the phone.
* Gyroscope of the phone.
* Body acceleration of the phone.
* Gravity acceleration of the phone.
* Jerk signal of the phone.
* Euclidean norm of the measurements.

###Compact tidy data set

The compact data set contains one row for each pair of subject id and activity label, summarizing the data contained in the full tidy data set calculating the mean for each variable.

##Variables

The variables in the tidy data sets generated by the analysis script are:

* `subject.id`: Id of the subject related to the observation. This column is an integer vector with values ranging from 1 to 30 (the 30 subjects who took part in the experiment).
* `activity.label`: Activity label for each observation. This column is a character vector with the following possible values, corresponding to positions of each subject during the observations:
  * "STANDING"
  * "SITTING"
  * "PLAYING"
  * "WALKING"
  * "WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS"
  * "WALKING UPSTAIRS"

The rest of the variable names are composed using a series of items, described as follows:

* `time`: Measurement of a time domain signal.
* `frequency`: Measurement of a frequency domain signal.
* `body`: Measurement of a body acceleration signal.
* `acceleration`: Measurement of a magnitude through the accelerometer of the phone.
* `shake`: Jerk signal obtained through linear acceleration and angular velocity of the body.
* `gravity`: Measurement of a gravity acceleration signal.
* `gyroscope`: Measurement of a magnitude through the gyroscope of the phone.
* `magnitude`: Euclidean norm (magnitude) of the measurement.
* `mean`: Estimated mean value of the measurement.
* `std`: Estimated standard deviation of the measurement.
* `x`, `y` and `z`: Three-dimensional axis of the measurement.

Thus, the column named `time.body.acceleration.mean.x` means "estimated mean of the time measurement of the body acceleration through the accelerometer in the x axis".

The variable names of the measurements are:

* `time.body.acceleration.mean.x`
* `time.body.acceleration.mean.y`
* `time.body.acceleration.mean.z`
* `time.body.acceleration.std.x`
* `time.body.acceleration.std.y`
* `time.body.acceleration.std.z`
* `time.gravity.acceleration.mean.x`
* `time.gravity.acceleration.mean.y`
* `time.gravity.acceleration.mean.z`
* `time.gravity.acceleration.std.x`
* `time.gravity.acceleration.std.y`
* `time.gravity.acceleration.std.z`
* `time.body.acceleration.shake.mean.x`
* `time.body.acceleration.shake.mean.y`
* `time.body.acceleration.shake.mean.z`
* `time.body.acceleration.shake.std.x`
* `time.body.acceleration.shake.std.y`
* `time.body.acceleration.shake.std.z`
* `time.body.gyroscope.mean.x`
* `time.body.gyroscope.mean.y`
* `time.body.gyroscope.mean.z`
* `time.body.gyroscope.std.x`
* `time.body.gyroscope.std.y`
* `time.body.gyroscope.std.z`
* `time.body.gyroscope.shake.mean.x`
* `time.body.gyroscope.shake.mean.y`
* `time.body.gyroscope.shake.mean.z`
* `time.body.gyroscope.shake.std.x`
* `time.body.gyroscope.shake.std.y`
* `time.body.gyroscope.shake.std.z`
* `time.body.acceleration.magnitude.mean`
* `time.body.acceleration.magnitude.std`
* `time.gravity.acceleration.magnitude.mean`
* `time.gravity.acceleration.magnitude.std`
* `time.body.acceleration.shake.magnitude.mean`
* `time.body.acceleration.shake.magnitude.std`
* `time.body.gyroscope.magnitude.mean`
* `time.body.gyroscope.magnitude.std`
* `time.body.gyroscope.shake.magnitude.mean`
* `time.body.gyroscope.shake.magnitude.std`
* `frequency.body.acceleration.mean.x`
* `frequency.body.acceleration.mean.y`
* `frequency.body.acceleration.mean.z`
* `frequency.body.acceleration.std.x`
* `frequency.body.acceleration.std.y`
* `frequency.body.acceleration.std.z`
* `frequency.body.acceleration.shake.mean.x`
* `frequency.body.acceleration.shake.mean.y`
* `frequency.body.acceleration.shake.mean.z`
* `frequency.body.acceleration.shake.std.x`
* `frequency.body.acceleration.shake.std.y`
* `frequency.body.acceleration.shake.std.z`
* `frequency.body.gyroscope.mean.x`
* `frequency.body.gyroscope.mean.y`
* `frequency.body.gyroscope.mean.z`
* `frequency.body.gyroscope.std.x`
* `frequency.body.gyroscope.std.y`
* `frequency.body.gyroscope.std.z`
* `frequency.body.acceleration.magnitude.mean`
* `frequency.body.acceleration.magnitude.std`
* `frequency.body.body.acceleration.shake.magnitude.mean`
* `frequency.body.body.acceleration.shake.magnitude.std`
* `frequency.body.body.gyroscope.magnitude.mean`
* `frequency.body.body.gyroscope.magnitude.std`
* `frequency.body.body.gyroscope.shake.magnitude.mean`
* `frequency.body.body.gyroscope.shake.magnitude.std`

##Transformations

The time and frequency domain measurements are largely untouched in this analysis, both in the full and compact tidy data sets required. The `subject.id` column remains intact also.

However, the `activity.label` column has been obtained through the merge of the original data set with another data set with the activity ids and their corresponding labels, wiping out the activity id column in the data set.